# Code for "Revealing how uncertainty computations drive hierarchical reasoning via CogLink Networks"
DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.13152289

## Installation
The code has been tested on python 3.8.2. It is highly recommended to use virtual environment to install the package. 
> virtualenv env

To install all the dependency, we recommend to use pip to install. This process will take about 5 minutes.
>pip install -r requirements.txt

## Data Availability
To run the code, please download the corresponding dataset deposited at Mendeley. The DOI is 10.17632/3ffrk7bw9h.1.

## Inspect the dataset
Dataset is stored via pickle.dump. The name of the dataset for experiment 1 is experiment1_data and the rest of the dataset follows similar naming convention. To load the dataset, simply use load_dict from util.py.
>from util import load_dict
>
>data = load_dict("experiment1_data")

The above code loads the data from experiment 1.

## File description
config.py is used to setup the parameter of the experiments.

train.py is used to run the experiment and generate data. Following code is an example to run experiment 1.
> python train.py --experiment_num 1

plot.py is used to analyze the data and generate the figures. Following code is an example to analyze experiment 1.
>python plot.py --experiment_num 1

model.py specifies all the models in the experiments. 

task.py specifies which task to run.

inference.py specifies the hyperparameters of the models in each experiment. 

cumsum_run.py is used to generate figure 5m 
>python cumsum_run.py

experiment.py is a helper script to conduct and log the experiments. 

gmail_logger.py, tensor_logger.py, util.py, run.py are utility scripts that helps running the exepriments.

## Reproduction instruction
One can generate the data in experiment i by running
>python train.py --experiment_num i

Depending on the experiment, this can take upto hours. If one would like, they can download the dataset generated by us deposited at Mendeley. The DOI is 10.17632/3ffrk7bw9h.1.. 

One can analyze the data of experiment i and generate the corresponding figures by running
>python plot.py --experiment_num i

In particular, Experiment 1, 2 generates figure 2, S2. Experiment 3, 4 generates figure 3, S3. Experiment 5 generates figure 4, S4. Experiment 6 generates figure 5, 6, S6. Experiment 7 generates figure 7. Experiment 8 generates figure 7i, S7. Experiment 9 generates figure 8, S8. Experiment 10 is a demo experiment consists of only 5 runs and it is the same experiment as experiment 6.

To generate figure 5m, one can run
>python cumsum_run.py

## Demo
To do a small demo, we let thalamocortical CogLink model and discounted Thompson Sampling solve the probability reversal task for 5 runs of 1000 trials. The demo experiment is experiment 10 and can be run by
>python train.py --experiment_num 10

The process takes about 15 minutes to generate all the data. The data will be saved as experiment10_data.

To do the analysis and plot the corresponding figures, one can do
>python plot.py --experiment_num 10

You will expect to see comparison between two models in different metrics and observe that thalamocortical CogLink model has lower regret, higher accuracy, faster switching time, and learns to switch faster. 


